First off,
let's look at what a component looks like.
If you're already familiar with React,
this will be super familiar with you.
But if you're less familiar with React or
you've never used it,
we're just going to recap.
This is an example of a React component
as you will find them on the web.
Let's look at this in detail.
First, we have the React input with
the other constant function, and
then we got an export.
Notice that here we're using a div.
And this looks suspiciously like HTML on
the web, it's actually what's called JSX,
which stands for JavaScript and XML.
But you can pretty much think of it as
HTML that you can write JavaScript in.
It's really handy because you can
make your code completely dynamic.
The React import, you'll notice that we're
not actually using React inside this
component anywhere.
But as a rule of thumb, if you're using
anything that has these tiny braces,
just JSX, they'll have to import React.
Now let's look at the corresponding
React Native components.
They're actually pretty similar.
But one thing that you might notice as
a difference is that we have these new
components view and text, which we
import directly from React Native.
Now, one difference between React and
React Native is that whereas in React we
have some JSX elements that are the same
as HTML elements like the p tag or
div or span or button.
We'll have them available
just magically globally.
Whereas in React Native,
every single thing has to be imported.
The other thing we'll notice is that
we've used a view here for a container.
And then, we have this text component
which doesn't exist on the web.
In React Native,
whenever you want to display any text,
it has to be wrapped inside a text
elements otherwise, you'll get error.
If you've done old timey programming,
where you had this MVC patterns,
and you might be used to thinking of views
as these one big container component or
a single page.
This is not actually the case,
you can pretty much think of use to
be equivalent to divs on the web.
You can use them for containing things,
for positioning, for anything.
You don't need to worry about using
too many div elements as well.
Because React Native, in a compile step,
automatically compresses two divs
that don't have any visible styles.
Now we're going to
introduce three components,
we've got our view which
is basically like a div.
We've got a scroll view,
which is a div, but it scrolls.
So content doesn't automatically
scroll in React Native.
If there's anything that needs
to have the scroll action,
need to use a scroll
view instead of a view.
And finally, a text, a text component is
used for displaying any text and or text.
If you don't use a text element,
you put some text and you get an error.
Right, well let's get coding.
So regardless of whether your using
Expo or not, go into your App.js.
And then just delete everything and
you get an error.
I'm gonna start from scratch.
First thing we do is we import React.
This is basically the first thing you
do in every single React component.
Now, what we're going to do is we're going
to import the React Native elements that
we're going to use.
We're going to import view and
text from react-native.
Now I always use constant functions,
especially nowadays when there's
no need for cost functions.
So let's do a new const called App.
So this is basically the template for
a const.
And now the next thing I usually do is
I also export it, export default App.
Right, so now we've got a little template,
but nothing, still rendering, and
that's because we haven't actually
added anything visible here.
Let's do a return, and
let's return a view.
Inside that view, you can see that
there's already no error which is great.
We'll add a text, with some Hello world!
Now, notice that this text gets
bended way at the top of the screen.
This is not what we want.
And you might be tempted to add some
padding at the top of the screen
to get around this.
But that's actually not
a great thing to do.
Because this will work on this
iPhone 11 emulate, what we have but
what about if you're using Android?
Let's see how this looks
on Android as well.
Yeah, so in Android,
it doesn't actually look that bad
because the screen starts from the top.
But thankfully,
there is a component that helps us get
around this it's called SafeAreaView.
So let's import the SafeAreaView as well.
And then let's just wrap the whole thing,
oops, in a SafeAreaView, cool.
And you'll notice that
the content automatically gets
rendered just below our notification bar.
And in Android, it already worked so
there's no change.
And you know how I said that you have
to use a text element to display text?
Now let's see what happens if you don't.
React Native will immediately tell you
that you're doing something wrong.
The error messages in React Native
are actually really good.
So if you end up getting an error,
just reading the error message
usually guides you to the solution.